To download and install Page Speed, please visit our download page:

http://code.google.com/speed/page-speed/download.html

===Page Speed Command-Line Utilities===

Currently Windows-only

  * `har_to_pagespeed`: Run Page Speed on a HAR file. Download for [http://page-speed.googlecode.com/files/har_to_pagespeed.exe Windows]
  * `pagespeed_optimize_image`: Page Speed image optimizer for PNG, GIF, and JPG (converts GIF to PNG). Download for [http://page-speed.googlecode.com/files/pagespeed_optimize_image.exe Windows]

===Page Speed SDK===

_NEW!_ Download the Page Speed SDK for Windows and Linux: [https://dl-ssl.google.com/page-speed/sdk/current/page-speed-sdk.zip page-speed-sdk.zip]

Also see EmbeddingPageSpeed.

*Linux*

You will need the `g++` package, and the `libjpeg`, `libpng`, and `zlib` dev packages installed on your system. For instance, on Ubuntu, you can run:

{{{
sudo apt-get install g++ zlib1g-dev libpng12-dev libjpeg62-dev
}}}

To build the SDK:

{{{
unzip page-speed-1.8.zip
cd page-speed-1.8
make
}}}

*Windows*

Windows users need to download the Page Speed SDK Windows dependencies: [http://page-speed.googlecode.com/files/page-speed-windeps.zip page-speed-windeps.zip]. This zip file contains static libraries for zlib, libpng, and libjpeg.

Unzip page-speed-1.8.zip, then unzip page-speed-windeps.zip in the page-speed-1.8 directory (the directory that contains directories named pagespeed, base, build, third_party, etc). This will overlay the required dependencies into the Page Speed SDK build tree.

Open pagespeed.sln and build.