#summary Explains how to build the Page Speed native libraries.

= Introduction =

Page Speed native libraries build using the gyp build system. There are currently two different Page Speed native libraries:
  * The Page Speed library, a reusable C++ library that provides the core Page Speed rule logic.
  * The Page Speed Firefox Add-on shared library, which wraps the core Page Speed library with Firefox APIs.

= Prerequisites =

To build Page Speed you will need to install the prerequisite software for your platform. You only need to get the prerequisites for your platform. Don't sync the Chromium source tree or anything like that.

  * [http://dev.chromium.org/developers/how-tos/build-instructions-windows#TOC-Prerequisite-software Windows]
    * Note that we require Visual Studio 2008 (express edition is fine)
  * [http://code.google.com/p/chromium/wiki/LinuxBuildInstructionsPrerequisites Linux]
  * [http://code.google.com/p/chromium/wiki/MacBuildInstructions Mac OS X]. Additionally, if you are building the Page Speed Firefox Add-On, install [http://www.macports.org/install.php MacPorts]. After installing !MacPorts, run `sudo port install libidl`.

Regardless of platform, you will need to install the Chromium [http://dev.chromium.org/developers/how-tos/install-depot-tools depot tools]. On Linux and Mac you will first need to install the subversion client (`sudo apt-get install subversion` on Ubuntu).

Optional: install [http://page-speed.googlecode.com/files/buildbot.crx Page Speed Buildbot Chrome extension] to monitor the status of the Page Speed builds.

= Check out the code =
Create a directory to hold your source code.  It is important that the full directory path contains no spaces.

For the Page Speed library:
  * `mkdir page-speed-library`
  * `cd page-speed-library`
  * `gclient config http://page-speed.googlecode.com/svn/lib/trunk/src`
  * `gclient sync --force`

For the Page Speed Firefox Add-on shared library:
  * `mkdir page-speed-firefox`
  * `cd page-speed-firefox`
  * `gclient config http://page-speed.googlecode.com/svn/firefox_addon/trunk/src`
  * `gclient sync --force`

= Compile the code =
  * Linux
    # Run: `cd src; BUILDTYPE=Release make -j4`.
    # Build output will appear under `out`.

  * Max OS X
    # Run: `cd src/build; xcodebuild -project all.xcodeproj -configuration Release -target All`
    # Build output will appear under `src/xcodebuild`.

  * Windows
    # Open src/build/All.vcproj in Visual Studio.
    # Run "Build Solution" from the "Build" menu.
    # Build output will appear under src/build/Release or src/build/Debug depending on your configuration options.

= Cross-compiling on Linux =
  * To compile an x86/ia32 binary on an x86_64 system (after the code has already been sync'd):
    # `GYP_DEFINES="target_arch=ia32" gclient runhooks`
    # `cd src; BUILDTYPE=Release make -j4`