#summary List of releases, with descriptions of what changed in each release.
#labels Featured,Phase-Support

=Page Speed Version History=

== 1.12 (07/27/2011) ==
  * New rules
    * Avoid excess serialization
    * Avoid long-running scripts
    * Eliminate unnecessary reflows
  * More accurate minification savings computation for gzip-compressible resources
  * Ignore data URIs in "Specify image dimensions"
  * Fixed JavaScript profiling issue
  * Only expect 24h cache lifetime for third-party resources
  * Improved tracking pixel detection
  * Improved percentage computations (no longer say "you can reduce this file's size by 0%")

== 1.11 05/23/2011 ==
  * Improved Firefox 4 support
  * Improved scoring and suggestion ordering
  * New rules
    * Defer parsing of JavaScript
    * Enable Keep-Alive
    * Make landing page redirects cacheable
  * Improved rules
    * Avoid bad requests
    * Inline small resources
    * Minimize redirects
    * Specify a character set
  * Localized rule results

== 1.10 12/16/2010 ==
  * Improved Firefox 4 support
  * Improved Firebug 1.6, 1.7 support
  * New client API
  * Merged "Serve static content from a cookieless domain" into "Minimize request size"
  * Improved JavaScript, CSS, and HTML minifiers
  * Improved support for XHTML
  * New rules:
    * Inline small JavaScript
    * Inline small CSS
  * Improved async resource detection
  * Improved image sprite candidate detection


== 1.9 9/20/2010 ==
New features:
  * New rules
    * Avoid CSS @import 
    * Prefer asynchronous resources
    * Combine images into CSS sprites
  * New HTML minifier based on [http://code.google.com/p/instaweb/  instaweb]

Bug fixes:
  * Fixed issue 296 : Use image instead of xhr for minimal beacon.
  * Fixed memory leaks.


== 1.8 6/2/2010 ==
New features:
  * New rules
    * Specify a Vary: Accept-Encoding header
    * Remove query strings from static resources
  * Rules ported to native library
    * Parallelize downloads across hostnames
    * Serve static content from a cookieless domain
    * Parts of "Leverage proxy caching" ported to new "Specify a Vary: Accept-Encoding header" and "Remove query strings from static resources" rules
  * Removed "Avoid CSS Expressions" rule since [http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms537634%28VS.85%29.aspx CSS expressions are no longer supported in any modern browsers]
  * New "Filter" support: Page Speed can analyze just the ads, just the trackers, or just the content of your page.
  * Improved quality of Minimize DNS Lookups suggestions
  * Improved scoring for Optimize Images, and of Minify HTML, JavaScript, CSS

Bug fixes:
  * Fixed issue with Page Speed tab highlighter getting out of sync when switching between browser tabs 
  * Fixed issue 248.

== 1.7 4/27/2010 ==
New features:
  * New rules:
    * Specify a cache validator
  * Rules ported to native library
    * Leverage browser caching
  * Added HAR (HTTP Archive) support
  * Released [http://code.google.com/p/page-speed/wiki/HowToBuildNativeLibraries Page Speed SDK]
  * Activity Panel
    * Full support for Firefox 3.6
    * Firefox 3.5 and earlier are no longer supported
    * This will likely be the last major updates for the Activity Panel

Bug fixes:
  * Fixed [http://code.google.com/p/page-speed/issues/detail?id=258 issue 258] Linux crash on old CPUs (fixed in 1.7.1 release)
  * Fixed [http://code.google.com/p/page-speed/issues/detail?id=251 issue 251] with documentation links

== 1.6  2/1/2010 ==
New features:
  * New rules:
    * [SpecifyCharsetEarly Specify a character set early]
    * [MinifyHtml Minify HTML]
    * Minimize request size
  * Rules ported to native library
    * Serve scaled images
    * Optimize images
    * Minify !JavaScript (uses native minifier)
    * Minify CSS
    * Put CSS in the document head
    * Optimize the order of styles and scripts
  * Added support for Firefox 3.6 and !SeaMonkey
  * Support for identifying lazy-loaded resources, and excluding them from some evaluations.
  * Ability to save optimized resources to disk via "Save As" link

Bug fixes:
  * Record onload time for tabs that load at startup
  * Fixed crash on Slackware 12.2
  * Improve resource type detection using HTTP status codes
  * Use correct file extension when converting optimized GIFs to PNGs

Known issues:
  * Activity Panel does not show !JavaScript events in Firefox 3.6
  * Links to documentation in the results panel don't work in some browsers


== 1.5  12/14/2009 ==
The largest change in this release is a change to use the Page Speed C++ Native Library.  This should speed up scoring, as well as allow rules to be run in programs other than just the Page Speed Firefox extension.  There will be some subtle differences in the scoring of rules between the old !JavaScript rules and the new library rules.  We are still working on evaluating the scoring mechanism as we port rules to C++ with the goal of making the scores more accurately reflect the value of fixing the issues that have been found.  Not all rules have been ported to C++ in this release.  In general, you will not be able to tell if a rule is run in JS or in C++.

Lots of thanks to Oksana Tkanko who has contributed code to this release.  We look forward to more code from Oksana and others in the open source community.

With this release we are dropping support for PPC-based Mac OS computers.

The following changes and bug fixes were made for the 1.5 release of Page Speed:
 * Switching between tabs should not re-run the analysis http://code.google.com/p/page-speed/issues/detail?id=22
 * Added avoid_bad_requests rule. (404s)  http://code.google.com/p/page-speed/issues/detail?id=164
 * Make the full results beacon automatically run when the proper prefs are set.  http://code.google.com/p/page-speed/issues/detail?id=122
 * Made temporary file names easier to read by removing the query string and non alpha-numeric characters.  http://code.google.com/p/page-speed/issues/detail?id=11
 * Fixed an alert that triggered when Firebug was closed while the activity panel was still recording.  http://code.google.com/p/page-speed/issues/detail?id=130

Changes that do not have issue numbers:
 * Ordered the array of lint rules in the JSON output by the short rule name so different runs can be compared using diff. 
 * Split image compression image scaling into 2 rules.
 * Updated the analysis results to show the overall score as xx/100.
 * Ported rules to C++ to increase the consistency between the Site Performance and Page Speed.
 * Enable compression rule now runs gzip on resource bodies to produce a more accurate savings estimate.
 * Dropped support for Mac PPC because the build system no longer supports it and fewer than 1% of Page Speed users are on this platform.
 * Updated latest supported version of Firebug to be 1.4.5
 * Enabled the export menu so that results can be published to http://www.showslow.com/ by default.  Added preferences so you can easily tweak them via the "about:config" URL.

== 1.4: 11/5/2009 ==

  * Use Closure Compiler in the "Minify JS" rule if the Closure Compiler Page Speed extension is installed.  This feature is currently only available under Windows and requires Sun Java VM 1.6 or later; support for other platforms is in the works.

== 1.3: 10/8/2009 ==

  * Added "Minify CSS" rule.
  * Added support for capturing Paint Snapshots as described in this article: http://code.google.com/speed/articles/browser-paint-events.html
  * Improvements to "Show Resources" panel including an indicator that shows which resources were served from the browser cache.
  * Add FB support through 1.4.3.

== 1.2: 8/20/2009 ==
  * Activity panel now shows paint events, which indicate time firefox spends drawing a page.
  * Add a menu which allows users to export results as JSON encoded text.
  * User agent list now shows only the most recent versions of browsers, unless "Show All User Agents" is checked in the options menu.
  * Add FB support through 1.4.2.


== 1.1: 7/22/2009 ==
  * Make the directory where optimized output is written a choice in the options menu.
  * Make CSS rule warning about :hover non-scoring.
  * Only warn about :hover if it is not applied to an anchor tag.
  * Fix link to documentation for the rule 'Serve resources from a consistent URL'.
  * Fix conflict with other firebug extensions, including SenSEO.
  * Unused CSS Rule now reads all CSS in a page.
  * Never change permissions on a directory unless Page Speed created it.
  * Better error messages in the activity panel.
  * Support JS events in the activity panel for both FF3.0 and FF3.5.
  * Update to activity panel to work with firebug 1.4.
  * Add a preference to enable full JS debugging on firefox 3.5.  This crashes in firefox 3.5, so it is disabled by default.  The bug is tracked at https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=505041 .


== 1.0.1.1: 6/23/2009 ==
  * Fix a spelling error in a menu item.

== 1.0.1.0: 6/23/2009 ==
  * Add support for Firefox 3.5`*`.
  * Add support for Firebug 1.4.
  * Optimized image and !JavaScript files are written to the temporary file area of the user's OS, instead of the user's home directory. 
    * On Linux, optimized files are saved to /tmp/ .
    * On the Mac OS, optimized files are saved to /Users/<user name>/Library/Caches/TemporaryItems/
    * On Windows, optimized files are saved to C:\Documents and Settings\<user name>\Local Settings\Temp\
  * Rule names in Page Speed scorecard are now colored as normal links.
  * Fix CSS expression lint output to have working links to CSS source.
  * Add several links to documentation, including a help button and tool tip text on the rule names that makes it clear that they link to docs.
  * Make exceptions in rules report the file and line number. This will make diagnosing failures from bug reports much easier.

`*`Activity Panel is not fully functional in Firefox 3.5 (!JavaScript
events are missing). Defer Loading of !JavaScript is not functional in
Firefox 3.5/FB1.4. We will fix these issues in an upcoming release.

== 1.0.0: 6/4/2009 ==
 * Initial release.


*No Tech Support Here:*  We don't read the comment section regularly.  If you have any issues, please email page-speed-discuss@googlegroups.com .