#summary Describes the Page Speed release build process.

We build releases using the following environments:

  * Linux builds are performed on Ubuntu 6.10 using hammer.
  * Windows builds are performed on Windows XP or Vista using Visual Studio 2008 Express Edition.
  * Mac builds are performed on OSX 10.5 using xcodebuild.

==Creating a Release==

===1. Create a Candidate Release Branch===

  # Create a release branch for the Page Speed library:
{{{
svn copy https://page-speed.googlecode.com/svn/lib/trunk https://page-speed.googlecode.com/svn/lib/branches/lib-x.y.0
}}}
    * where x is the major version and y is the minor version (e.g. 1.7.0)
  # Create a release branch for the Page Speed Firefox Add-on
{{{
svn copy https://page-speed.googlecode.com/svn/firefox_addon/trunk https://page-speed.googlecode.com/svn/firefox_addon/branches/page-speed-x.y.0
}}}
  # Update DEPS in the Firefox Add-on release branch to point at the library release branch:
{{{
  "libpagespeed_trunk": "http://page-speed.googlecode.com/svn/lib/branches/lib-x.y.0",
  "libpagespeed_revision": "@head",
}}}
  # Update the Page Speed version in `install.rdf` to `x.y-branch+svn`
{{{
    <em:version>x.ybranch+svn</em:version>
}}}
  # Update the Page Speed version in `pagespeed_version.cc`:
{{{
const int kPagespeedMajorVersion = x;
const int kPagespeedMinorVersion = y;
const bool kRelease = false;
}}}
  # Build shared objects for target platforms and check them into the Firefox Add-on branch.
  # Build a candidate release xpi using ant and qualify the release candidate.
  # Submit any bug fixes to the release branch and integrate them back to trunk.

===2. Create a Release Tag===

  # Create a release tag for the Page Speed library:
{{{
svn copy https://page-speed.googlecode.com/svn/lib/branches/lib-x.y.0 https://page-speed.googlecode.com/svn/lib/tags/lib-x.y.0.0
}}}
  # Create a release tag for the Page Speed Firefox Add-on
{{{
svn copy https://page-speed.googlecode.com/svn/firefox_addon/branches/page-speed-x.y.0 https://page-speed.googlecode.com/svn/firefox_addon/tags/page-speed-x.y.0.0
}}}
  # Update DEPS in the Firefox Add-on release branch to point at the library release tag:
{{{
  "libpagespeed_trunk": "http://page-speed.googlecode.com/svn/lib/tags/lib-x.y.0.0",
  "libpagespeed_revision": "@head",
}}}
  # Update the Page Speed version in `install.rdf` to `x.y`
{{{
    <em:version>x.y</em:version>
}}}
  # Update the Page Speed version in `pagespeed_version.cc`:
{{{
const int kPagespeedMajorVersion = x;
const int kPagespeedMinorVersion = y;
const bool kRelease = true;
}}}
  # Build shared objects for target platforms, strip them (see below), and check them into the Firefox Add-on release tag.

===Stripping binaries===

  * On Linux: `strip libpagespeed.so`
  * On OSX: `strip -x -S libpagespeed.dylib`
  * There is no strip on Windows.