#summary Describes the structure of the Firefox Add-on

=Page Speed Firefox Add-on structure=

==Introduction==

The Page Speed Firefox Add-on contains !JavaScript components as well as binary (C++) components. The !JavaScript components are used to construct the UI and to collect information about the resources loaded by a page, while the binary component is used to run the Page Speed ruleset on those resources. The !JavaScript component communicates with the binary component using [https://developer.mozilla.org/en/XPCOM XPCOM], a Mozilla/Firefox technology that allows code written in different languages to call each other.

==Structure of the XPI==

XPI files are just zip files with a different file extension. You can run "unzip" on the XPI to extract its contents. The XPI contains the following top-level directories:
  * . (top-level directory)
  * chrome
  * components
  * platform
  * defaults

===The top-level directory===
The top-level directory contains configuration files that Firefox reads to gather information about the Add-on.

  * *install.rdf* contains descriptive information about the add-on, such as name, description, and version. It also contains information about which versions of Firefox the add-on is compatible with, as well as an "update" URL that allows Firefox to discover if there is a more recent version of the Add-on available.

  * *chrome.manifest* describes the layout of the rest of the XPI. This includes the locations of the !JavaScript components, the binary components, the [https://developer.mozilla.org/en/Mozilla_Embedding_FAQ/Embedding_Gecko#Why_do_I_need_to_distribute_XPT_files_with_my_application.3f XPT files] for our XPCOM interfaces, and the [https://developer.mozilla.org/en/xul XUL files] used to display the Page Speed UI.

===The "chrome" directory===

The "chrome" directory contains the !JavaScript and XUL files (XUL is a Mozilla markup language similar to HTML) used to present the Page Speed UI. The files are in the `chrome/pagespeed/content` subdirectory. The most important files are:

  * *pagespeedOverlay.xul* is a [https://developer.mozilla.org/en/xul_overlays XUL overlay] which contains the XUL markup for the Page Speed UI. `chrome.manifest` indicates that this file should be overlayed into `firebugOverlay.xul`, which is what causes Page Speed to render in the Firebug UI.

  * *pagespeedContext.js* TODO write this

  * *pagespeedPanel.js* TODO write this

  * *lint.js* TODO write this

  * *pagespeedLibraryRules.js* TODO write this

===The "components" directory===

The "components" directory contains [https://developer.mozilla.org/en/Mozilla_Embedding_FAQ/Embedding_Gecko#Why_do_I_need_to_distribute_XPT_files_with_my_application.3f XPT files], which are used my the xpcom runtime to communicate between !JavaScript and C++, as well as the !JavaScript-based services used to collect information about the resources on a page (componentCollectorService.js).

===The "platform" directory===

The "platform" directory contains the platform-specific binary components, one for each platform we support (Linux_x86-gcc3, Linux_x86_64-gcc3, Darwin_x86-gcc3, WINNT_x86-msvc).

===The "defaults" directory===

The "defaults" directory contains the default values for Page Speed configuration preferences.



TODO:
  * build environment and xulrunner sdk
  * what else?